# Building a Facial Recognition Algorithm Using Principal Component Analysis (PCA)
<p align="justify">Facial recognition is utilized by SnapChat and Instagram to attract a wider user base amidst stiff competition from different applications through filters and animated lenses. Apple and Samsung have patented biometric authentication that utilize facial recognition sensors on the devices front. Facebook has a DeepFace system that employs a nine-layer neural network with over 120 million connection weights, trained on four million images uploaded by Facebook users. DeepFace shows human-level performance even outperforming us in various situations. This technology is outperforms the FBI's Next Generation Identification system. Competing with this is China which is developing facial recognition technology to identify people wearing surgical or dust masks by matching solely to eyes and foreheads. This project introduces principal component analysis to build a simple facial recognition model on two unique datasets. The unsupervised machine learning model is explained, visualized and mathematically expressed in order to build intuition. The eigenfaces are plotted from the original 4 faces along with k-dimensional reconstructions of them for k= 3, 10, 25, 50 and 200. Various machine learning models, L/QDA, Support Vector Classifier, Gaussian NB and a Multi-Layer Perceptron are built, tuned and fitted to the faces dataset for classification. Finally a synthetic dataset is created and a K-means clustering model is built. Performance of the model, the quality of the clusters, is compared to when the model is trained on raw data and to when it is trained on principal component vectors.</p>
